alarming unacceptable a nightmare just
some of the international reactions to a
deadly incident in Gaza which saw scores
of people die in a chaotic Scramble for
food there there are conflicting reports
of what exactly happened Hamas Health
officials say more than a 100 people
were killed after Israeli soldiers
opened fire on a crowd near an aid
Convoy Israeli officials say most of the
Dead were trampled in a stampede more in
this report
these aerial images have been released
by Israel's military it says they show
Palestinians in Gaza City running
towards eight trucks in the early hours
of Thursday morning resulting in a
deadly
Stampede at 4:45 a.m. a mob ambushed the
a trucks bringing the Convoy to a
halt as you can see in this video the
tanks that were there to secure the
Convoy sees the gazand being trampled
and cautiously tries to disperse the mob
with a few warning
shots when the hundreds became thousands
and things got out out of hand the T
Commander decided to retreat to avoid
harm to the thousands of gazans that
were there the Israel Defense Forces
operate according to the Rules of
Engagement and The Intern ational law no
IDF strike was conducted towards the aid
Convoy the Hamas run Health Ministry in
Gaza has presented a different version
of events saying more than 100 civilians
were shot dead by Israeli troops while
waiting for
Aid eyewitnesses said that some truck
drivers tried to escape the Israeli fire
causing deaths and injuries and some of
the Wounded said they were hit by
Israeli
gunshots
after they stopped shooting we went back
to get our
Aid by the time I got flower and some
canned goods and took it down from the
truck they shot at us if you want to get
us Aid this way then you might as well
not bring anything the US says it's
trying to establish exactly what
happened and that the incident
underscores the need to expand the
supply of humanitarian Aid into Gaza two
things are clear one just from the
aerial footage
you can look at that and and right away
conclude the situation is incredibly
desperate and that tells you that we
need to do more to get humanitarian
assistance in uh and then the second
thing is that too many Palestinians died
today as has been true far too many days
since October 7th and so that's why we
continue to push for a temporary
ceasefire agreement President Joe Biden
has warned that it could complicate the
negotiations underway between Israel and
Hamas to reach a temporary halt in the
fighting
as we've heard there the different
versions of the events in Gaza here's
Jerusalem based journalist Sami Soko
with more on
this yeah well I think maybe the
important part is actually the fact that
the Israel Defense Forces they admitted
opening fire at the crowd uh they said
that there was a tank and soldiers that
opened fire at the pal iians they were
unarmed if they would have been armed we
would have heard about it so we're
talking about opening fire of towards a
group of unarmed Palestinians and they
say that the distance between this force
and these Palestinians was tens of
meters so they weren't that close
nevertheless the IDF said that they
posed the threat and so these soldiers
we're talking about around 4:00 it was
dark it was night conditions
they felt that they were under threat
they opened the fire and they claim that
they only hit 10 but when we go to a
shifa hospital we see that the numbers
of course are much higher so I think if
you would want to investigate you would
have to go to shifa and and and see how
many were wounded from the from that
shooting